# Predict Customer Churn

This project, part of the ML DevOps Engineer Nanodegree from Udacity, focuses on building a machine learning model to predict customer churn. Predicting churn helps companies retain valuable customers by identifying at-risk customers before they leave.

## Project Structure

- **requirements.txt**: List of dependencies to set up the environment.
- **churn_notebook.ipynb**: Jupyter notebook for exploratory data analysis and model development.
- **churn_library.py**: Main library with functions for data processing, feature engineering, model training, and evaluation.
- **churn_script_logging_and_tests.py**: Script for logging and testing the main library's functions.
- **data/**: Folder to store the dataset used in this project.
- **logs/**: Directory where logs generated by the scripts are saved.
- **images/**: Contains visualizations and images generated during analysis.
- **models/**: Directory to store trained model artifacts.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository.
2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

- **churn_library.py**: This script contains the main functions for data processing, training, and evaluation.
```bash
python churn_library.py
```
- **churn_script_logging_and_tests.py**: Execute this script to perform logging and testing of `churn_library.py` functions:
```bash
python churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
```

## EDA, Modeling, Evaluation, and Results

- Exploratory Data Analysis is conducted and saved in the `images/eda/` directory. 
- The model is trained utilizing Random Forest and Logistic regression on a provided dataset.
- Evaluation metrics include accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score.
- Visualizations of metrics are saved in the `images/results/` directory.
- Trained models are saved in the `models/` directory.

## Logging and Testing

- **Logging**: Logs of script executions are stored in the `logs/` directory.
- **Testing**: The `churn_script_logging_and_tests.py` script includes tests to ensure the main functions in `churn_library.py` work as expected.
- **Code Quality:** Both `churn_library.py` and `churn_script_logging_and_tests.py` achieved a perfect score in pylint, ensuring high code quality and adherence to Python's coding standards.


